ReSurfEMG Newsletter # 2: Git it done : A message from Dr. Moore 

As we get ready for the upcoming conference, we are sending information to harmonize and refine our shared understanding of many issues. We hope communication will be a two way street, and you should feel free to be in contact with us about your hopes and desires not only for the conference but more importantly how the field will change and move in the next years. Perhaps a working group will form, there are so many possibilities, but to move the field forward we should move forward in our skills. 
 
So in this newsletter we take a closer look at learning about Git. We expect you to work with Git (or at least get another partifcipant to help you with it) to contribute to the collaborative paper we plan to write in the workshop. 

We are using Git for Version control on all our repositories. We are very happy to report we had our first cross University Git learning collaboration this October! We played a home-made game designed to teach some basic Git commands. It's worth noting that depending upon your machine you can play online games for the same purpose. For people not on Window's machines, we reccomend [OhmyGit!](https://ohmygit.org/). There is also [the Git Game](https://github.com/git-game/git-game) however it has not been updated for almost a decade. Code related to specific implementations in computer code tends to change quickly, so as a general rule of thumb, if you find a library or code base where you see no changes for years, it is safe to assume you are looking at 'abandonware.' 

Beyond the games there is a cornucopia of resources online to help you learn Git. And for those of you who want to learn by doing as quickly as possible, there are even Git cheat sheets [like this one](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/atlassian-git-cheatsheet) floating around the internet! 

With so much information available about Git online, you might wonder why it's worth "learning" anything at all. Let's be clear when we write about learning here we do not mean memorization. We want to raise your awareness about the tool to a point where you can use it along with us. 

If you come from a medical background you may want to know two things- the bible, and the online go-to. By bible we meant the accepted standard text for the field, like Harrison's for Internal Medicine, and by online go-to we mean something comparable to uptodate. There is a [bible](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2,) and a [manual](https://git-scm.com/docs/user-manual) but there is no standard online go-to other than the [Git glossary](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitglossary) itself. There are many sites like (Stackoverflow)[https://stackoverflow.com/] from which you can often get quick awnser but beware they can be outdated or just plain wrong. Fortunately, it takes a lot of work to delete anything from a Git history, so unless you try, you are unlikely to erase anything or screw it up in a way that can not be fixed. Further, you should be warned that there isn't a lot of standardization about the way programmers speak on certain issues. Your git flag (e.g. the --all in git branch --all) is another's git option and vice-versa. This general reality is very hard to cope with if you come from a medical training background. The nomenclature of anatomy has been (mostly) fixed for our entire lifetime, but the nomenclature around computing issues is evolving rapidly. Therefore we must learn not through rote memorization, but understanding.

Refining and testing our own team's way of learning Git, our Git game, is an ongoing project. Reactions to the concept have ranged from "sounds like fun" to "I would sabotage such offensive nonsense." In general the gamification of learning is a trend not without detractors. In the end many analyses of how we should be learning often comes down to taste. Whatever you taste, we do highly reccomend you get up to speed on Git. Version control is a fundamental skill for any modern approach to computationally heavy science work.So we would like to give every opportunity to learners to catch up on skills related to Python, Git and working with code.

If you have ideas, specific questions or suggestions about learning these skills please be in touch with us via email. Additionally, if there are any participants for whom everything related to ode is all a new world, we will make some hours available from our team to yours in order to start catching you up. Please contact Dr. Moore at c.moore@escienceceneter.nl if you are interested in this. 

If you feel a bit overwhelmed by the amount of technology you must grasp to work with EMG you are not alone. Keep in mind that while this makes the work challenging, it also means we are on the very edge of innovation. We are all finding and discovering new information. What a glorious task.


Keep learning and see you soon! 
The ReSurfEMG Team