ReSurfEMG Newsletter # 2: Free live tutorial online and in person

We are happy to announce a free live tutorial you can join on Zoom or in person in February for participants and friends who want to move forward in the computer programming skills for working with the ReSurfEMG package! For more details on what will be covered look [here](https://github.com/ReSurfEMG/learning/blob/main/biosignals_tutorial.md). The time and date are ..... The link is
We hope everyone without a lot of version control experience will come to the tutorial, which will also cover topics like how to work with our library without coding. 
Although there is some functionality of ReSurfEMG you can use without code, we think it's never a bad time to know how to get more out of the tool by working with code. In face in science in general, researchers could do a lot more if they knew how to get the most from thier computing machines. But where to start?
Many people, from clinicians to weary educators to engineers fresh out of school, wonder what programming language they need to learn to break into AI and/or computationally driven research. One awnser surprises and dissapoints them. It's nor Python, or R or Julia; it's Git. As Dr. Moore recently explained to some students in AI, increasinly everyone from pharmacists to psychologists to even high school students can do some programming on the level of writing simple scripts. That means that given enough time they can copy-paste their wau to a notebook of machine learning. So why can't these copy-pasters do anything that actually accomplishes much? Because they lack certain obvious and neccesary skills.
 One of the critical skills that seperates people who can copy code from professionals, i.e. the people who could actually accomplish writing important code for research, is knowing how to use version control. Version control is a must-have because complex programs that involve signal processing and machine learning are rarely written by a single person.
 But let's imagine you don't really want to do too much messing around with code. Many of the people asking about how to get into programming do not actually aspire to do much programming (or they wouldn't if they understood how boring it might be), they simply want thier ideas realized. For them it would be more exciting to direct a group of talented programmers, than waste hours debugging their own code. They really want to work effectively with programmers, not be programmers. On a day to day basis being effective at this kind of collaboration requires tasks like examining newly written code and perhaps adding documentation. These tasks are possible without mastering version control, much in the way it is possible to get from Paris to Jerusalem for a meeting by walking. Just as your colleagues aren't going to tolerate rescheduling a meeting for your year long pilgramage when you could just get on Zoom, your future colleagues in programming, shouldn't tolerate you writing documentation suggestions in an email, or asking for help every time you want to examine a new patch to the code. 

 If the whole subject of version control is unclear to you, then showing up at our tutorial in Biosignals will be a great introduction. This is a tutorial for the whole surface EMG community, including people with difficulties with computers. We hope to see you there! 
 