ReSurfEMG Newsletter # 2: "Git" it done : A message from Dr. Moore 

Many people, from clinicians to weary educators to engineers fresh out of school, ask me what programming language they need to learn to break into AI and/or computationally driven research. My awnser surprises and dissapoints them. It's nor Python, or R or Julia; it's Git. As I recently explained to some students in AI, increasinly everyone from pharmacists to psychologists to even high school students can do some programming on the level of writing simple scripts. That means that given enough time they can copy-paste their wau to a notebook of machine learning. So why can't these copy-pasters do anything that actually accomplishes much? Because they lack certain obvious and neccesary skills.
 One of the critical skills that seperates people who can copy code from professionals, i.e. the people who could actually accomplish writing important code for research, is knowing how to use version control. Version control is a must-have because complex programs that involve signal processing and machine learning are rarely written by a single person. Furthermore most of the people asking me how to get into programming do not actually aspire to do much programming (or they wouldn't if they understood how boring it might be), they simply want thier ideas realized. For them it would be more exciting to direct a group of talented programmers, than waste hours debugging their own code. They really want to work effectively with programmers, not be programmers. On a day to day basis being effective at this kind of collaboration requires tasks like examining newly written code and perhaps adding documentation. These tasks are possible without mastering version control, much in the way it is possible to get from Paris to Jerusalem for a meeting by walking. Just as your colleagues aren't going to tolerate rescheduling a meeting for your year long pilgramage when you could just get on Zoom, your future colleagues in programming, shouldn't tolerate you writing documentation suggestions in an email, or asking for help every time you want to examine a new patch to the code.  
 
So in this newsletter we take a closer look at learning about Git. We expect you to work with Git (or at least get another partifcipant to help you with it) to contribute to the collaborative paper we plan to write in the workshop. As we have mentioned on our learning readme, we are using Git for Version control on all our repositories. 

If you come from a medical background you may want to know two things- the bible, and the online go-to. By bible we meant the accepted standard text for the field, like Harrison's for Internal Medicine, and by online go-to we mean something comparable to uptodate. There is a [bible](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2,) and a [manual](https://git-scm.com/docs/user-manual) but there is no standard online go-to other than the [Git glossary](https://git-scm.com/docs/gitglossary) itself. There are many sites like (Stackoverflow)[https://stackoverflow.com/] from which you can often get quick awnser but beware they can be outdated or just plain wrong. Fortunately, it takes a lot of work to delete anything from a Git history, so unless you try, you are unlikely to erase anything or screw it up in a way that can not be fixed. Further, you should be warned that there isn't a lot of standardization about the way programmers speak on certain issues. Your git flag (e.g. the --all in git branch --all) is another's git option and vice-versa. This general reality is very hard to cope with if you come from a medical training background. The nomenclature of anatomy has been (mostly) fixed for our entire lifetime, but the nomenclature around computing issues is evolving rapidly. Therefore we must learn not through rote memorization, but understanding.

There is a cornucopia of resources online to help you learn Git. And for those of you who want to learn by doing as quickly as possible, there are even Git cheat sheets [like this one](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/atlassian-git-cheatsheet) floating around the internet! 

With so much information available about Git online, you might wonder why it's worth "learning" anything at all. Let's be clear when we write about learning here we do not mean memorization. We want to raise your awareness about the tool to a point where you can use it along with us. 

Refining and testing our own team's way of learning Git, our own in-house Git game, is an ongoing project. Reactions to the concept of gamified learning have ranged from "sounds like fun" to "I would sabotage such offensive nonsense. In the end many analyses of how we should be learning often comes down to taste. Whatever you taste, we do highly reccomend you get up to speed on Git. Version control is a fundamental skill for any modern approach to computationally heavy science work.So we would like to give every opportunity to learners to catch up on skills related to Python, Git and working with code.

If you have ideas, specific questions or suggestions about learning these skills please be in touch with us via email. Additionally, if there are any participants for whom everything related to ode is all a new world, we will make some hours available from our team to yours in order to start catching you up. Please contact me at c.moore@escienceceneter.nl if you are interested in this. 

If you feel a bit overwhelmed by the amount of technology you must grasp to work with EMG you are not alone. Keep in mind that while this makes the work challenging, it also means we are on the very edge of innovation. We are all finding and discovering new information. What a glorious task.



Many people, from clinicians to weary educators to engineers fresh out of school, wonder what programming language they need to learn to break into AI and/or computationally driven research. One answer surprises and disappoints them. It's nor Python, R or Julia; it's Git. As Dr. Moore recently explained to some graduate students in AI, increasingly everyone from pharmacists to psychologists to even high school students can do some programming on the level of writing simple scripts. That means that given enough time they can copy-paste their way to a notebook of machine learning. So why can't these copy-pasters do anything that actually accomplishes much? Because they lack certain obvious and necessary critical skills.

 One of the critical skills that separates people who can copy code from professionals, i.e. the people who could actually accomplish writing important code for research, is knowing how to use version control. Version control is a must-have because complex programs that involve signal processing and machine learning are rarely written by a single person.

 But perhaps you don't really want to do too much messing around with code. Many of the people asking about how to get into programming do not actually aspire to do much programming (or they wouldn't if they understood how boring it might be), they simply want their ideas realized. For them it would be more exciting to direct a group of talented programmers, than waste hours debugging their own code. They really want to work effectively with programmers, not be programmers. On a day to day basis being effective at this kind of collaboration requires tasks like examining newly written code and perhaps adding documentation. These tasks are possible without mastering version control, much in the way it is possible to get from Paris to Jerusalem for a meeting by walking. Just as your colleagues aren't going to tolerate rescheduling a meeting for a year long walk to the meeting, when you could just get on Zoom, your future colleagues in programming shouldn't tolerate you writing documentation suggestions in an email, or asking for help every time you want to examine a new patch to the code or check out features on an upcoming version. 
Keep learning and see you soon! 
The ReSurfEMG Team